# Data-Encryption-on-Removable-Media
Data Security is a major issue which we are facing today in this digital world of communication. Data protection can be accomplished by changing the original data to appear as cipher text. In this project we will do our best to develop an offline software running on external storage devices  which can perform the intended tasks, and at the same time it will be very friendly to the users and will not require special skills to learn about using our developed software. In this application the user must select either he wants to store something by encryption or wants to use by decryption. If they are not encrypted, there is a high risk of exposing the sensitive information to unauthorized people. Therefore, we believe that the data shall be encrypted, especially when they contain sensitive or personally identifiable information. On the other hand, some data protection regulations like the GDPR or HIPAA are mandatory to follow if you are a business or a company user. According to them, you will have to pay costly fines if your data is not encrypted.
Even if these regulations do not constrain you, it is still vital to encrypt your external storage devices to prevent data breaches that could cause severe damage to your company.
USB peripherals (commonly known as “flash drives”), memory cards, and external hard drives are convenient data storage devices that can hold various forms of digital files. It’s a separate device that attaches to the computer, usually through a USB port. An external hard drive can be moved between computers and can provide extra storage space for backup files. While external hard drives and USB sticks are beneficial when transferring or viewing data from one machine to another, there is a high risk of exposing the sensitive information to unauthorized people. Therefore, and due to the importance of protecting confidentiality and integrity of the personal data, we thought about developing an encryption software that will make it more difficult for unauthorized person to access the information and prevent anyone who might find the portable drive from accessing it easily
We are planning to create an offline encryption/decryption software that intends to protect the confidentiality and integrity of the data stored in the external hardware. Our software will run with a friendly GUI and will be developed using “Python” as the programming language

